

Data Pre-processing

RLP AgroScience uses rulesets developed in ecognition developer (defiens) to
segment the orthophotos with help of statistics derived from digital surface models and remote sensing
data. One such statistic is the Bare Area Index (BAI) and the mean height. 
% tile size? more details?

We apply a PostGIS spatial join query using ST_WITHIN to select only those
polygons from the segmented dataset that fall completely within the biotope polygon of our preprocessed
biotope map. We join those polygons
with EUNIS characteristics and also attach zonal statistics that are calculated
for every polygon. The last step in the pre-processing workflow is the
replacement of NULL values with zeros. The null values arise due to small
polygon sizes created by the segmentation process. In the future, a new
segmented dataset that respects the biotope boundaries should be available and
will reduce the problems from selecting polygons that fall completely within the
polygon.

Training/Testing Dataset
Currently 200 training objects per class are randomly selected and used for
training the decision tree (DT) algorithm. A subset of these objects, 20 per class,
are used as input for the SEaTH algorithm as it performs better with fewer
characteristic objects.

Feature Reduction
Feature reduction was performed to create better training data for the DT
algorithm and SEaTH. We used a cross-validation grid search in sci-kit learn to
find the optimal parameters. % spell it out? 

SEaTH's algorithm performs a two dimensional feature selection
on account of the Jefferies-Matusita distance.



Results

The 

We were able to reach over 90% accuracy for dry and aquatic classAes Using the
decision tree classification algorithm from sci-kit learn. The same results
using the 13 most important features produced by the random forest algorithm
also achieved equal results. This can potentially reduce the amount of features
and statistics that need to be calculated to classify habitat objects. This
would greatly reduce computation and storage requirements for habitat
classification.
